README.md, before:

# MineSweeper
A Node.js implementation of minesweeper game 💣

## Installation

Clone this repo and run:

```npm install```

For env configuration, create a `.env` file with following variables:

```
HOST=localhost
PORT=3000

BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:3000
CLIENT_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080

DATABASE_URL=_YOUR_MONGO_DB_URL_
REDIS_URL=_YOUR_REDIS_URL_

SALT=Any secret you like for sync JWT
```

## API Reference

### User
`POST` `/api/user/register`

To create a new user, it will return a JWT token

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  email: String,
  password: String,
  name: String,
}
```

*Response*

```
JWT TOKEN
```



`POST` `/api/user/login`

To login an existing user, it will return a JWT token

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  email: String,
  password: String,
}
```

*Response*

```
JWT TOKEN
```



`GET` `/api/me`

To get existing user information,

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  email: String,
  name: String,
}
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  email: String,
  name: String,
}
```

### Game
`POST` `/api/game`

To create a new Game for the given user

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  name: String,
  size: Number, // Size of the board (9 -> 9 by 9)
  mines: Number, // Amount of mines to place
}
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  userId: ObjectId,
  name: String,
  size: Number,
  quantity: Number,
  board: Array,
  movesLeft: Number,
  gameOver: Boolean,
}
```

`GET` `/api/game/:gameId`
To get the Game status for a given `gameId`

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  userId: ObjectId,
  name: String,
  size: Number,
  quantity: Number,
  board: Array,
  movesLeft: Number,
  gameOver: Boolean,
}
```

`PATCH` `/api/game/:gameId`
To get make a move on a given `gameId`

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  row: Number,
  col: Number,
}
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  userId: ObjectId,
  name: String,
  size: Number,
  quantity: Number,
  board: Array,
  movesLeft: Number,
  gameOver: Boolean,
}
```

`PATCH` `/api/game/flag/:gameId`
To plant a Flag on a given `gameId` and `row` `col`

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  row: Number,
  col: Number,
}
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  userId: ObjectId,
  name: String,
  size: Number,
  quantity: Number,
  board: Array,
  movesLeft: Number,
  gameOver: Boolean,
}
```

#### Example Board
```
┌────────────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┐
│  (index)   │  0  │  1  │  2  │  3  │  4  │  5  │  6  │  7  │  8  │  9  │
├────────────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┤
│     0      │  0  │  0  │  0  │  0  │  1  │'⛳' │  1  │  0  │  0  │  0  │
│     1      │  1  │  1  │  1  │  0  │  1  │  1  │  1  │  0  │  0  │  0  │
│     2      │ '-' │ '-' │  2  │  1  │  1  │  0  │  0  │  1  │  1  │  1  │
│     3      │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │  2  │  1  │  1  │  1  │ '-' │ '-' │
│     4      │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │
│     5      │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │
│     6      │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │  1  │  1  │  1  │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │
│     7      │ '-' │  2  │  1  │  1  │  0  │  1  │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │
│     8      │  1  │  1  │  0  │  0  │  0  │  1  │ '-' │  2  │  1  │  1  │
│     9      │  0  │  0  │  0  │  0  │  0  │  1  │ '-' │  1  │  0  │  0  │
└────────────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┘
```

## Postman Collection

https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/82035/SVSNJSjR?version=latest

Commit message:

Added more docs about the stack and lined the postman collection

README.md, after:

# MineSweeper
A Node.js implementation of minesweeper game 💣

## Installation

Clone this repo and run:

```npm install```

For env configuration, create a `.env` file with following variables:

```
HOST=localhost
PORT=3000

BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:3000
CLIENT_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080

DATABASE_URL=_YOUR_MONGO_DB_URL_
REDIS_URL=_YOUR_REDIS_URL_

SALT=Any secret you like for sync JWT
```

## API Reference

### User
`POST` `/api/user/register`

To create a new user, it will return a JWT token

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  email: String,
  password: String,
  name: String,
}
```

*Response*

```
JWT TOKEN
```



`POST` `/api/user/login`

To login an existing user, it will return a JWT token

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  email: String,
  password: String,
}
```

*Response*

```
JWT TOKEN
```



`GET` `/api/me`

To get existing user information,

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  email: String,
  name: String,
}
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  email: String,
  name: String,
}
```

### Game
`POST` `/api/game`

To create a new Game for the given user

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  name: String,
  size: Number, // Size of the board (9 -> 9 by 9)
  mines: Number, // Amount of mines to place
}
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  userId: ObjectId,
  name: String,
  size: Number,
  quantity: Number,
  board: Array,
  movesLeft: Number,
  gameOver: Boolean,
}
```

`GET` `/api/game/:gameId`
To get the Game status for a given `gameId`

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  userId: ObjectId,
  name: String,
  size: Number,
  quantity: Number,
  board: Array,
  movesLeft: Number,
  gameOver: Boolean,
}
```

`PATCH` `/api/game/:gameId`
To get make a move on a given `gameId`

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  row: Number,
  col: Number,
}
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  userId: ObjectId,
  name: String,
  size: Number,
  quantity: Number,
  board: Array,
  movesLeft: Number,
  gameOver: Boolean,
}
```

`PATCH` `/api/game/flag/:gameId`
To plant a Flag on a given `gameId` and `row` `col`

*Headers*
```
Authorizarion: Bearer _TOKEN_HERE_
```

*Body req Payload*
```
{
  row: Number,
  col: Number,
}
```

*Response*
```
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  userId: ObjectId,
  name: String,
  size: Number,
  quantity: Number,
  board: Array,
  movesLeft: Number,
  gameOver: Boolean,
}
```

#### Example Board
```
┌────────────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┬─────┐
│  (index)   │  0  │  1  │  2  │  3  │  4  │  5  │  6  │  7  │  8  │  9  │
├────────────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┼─────┤
│     0      │  0  │  0  │  0  │  0  │  1  │'⛳' │  1  │  0  │  0  │  0  │
│     1      │  1  │  1  │  1  │  0  │  1  │  1  │  1  │  0  │  0  │  0  │
│     2      │ '-' │ '-' │  2  │  1  │  1  │  0  │  0  │  1  │  1  │  1  │
│     3      │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │  2  │  1  │  1  │  1  │ '-' │ '-' │
│     4      │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │
│     5      │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │
│     6      │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │  1  │  1  │  1  │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │
│     7      │ '-' │  2  │  1  │  1  │  0  │  1  │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │ '-' │
│     8      │  1  │  1  │  0  │  0  │  0  │  1  │ '-' │  2  │  1  │  1  │
│     9      │  0  │  0  │  0  │  0  │  0  │  1  │ '-' │  1  │  0  │  0  │
└────────────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┴─────┘
```

## The stack
It's a Node / Express App using MongoDb for persistence and Redis as key store.

Authentication with JWT is handled with Passport.js. Database mappings and schemas are modeled with Mongoose. Frequent accessed objects, like Game State, are stored in Redis for quick access and to avoid DB latency.

The Backend is architected in 3 layers:

### Routers
Build on top of express and using session and middlewares to do authorization.

### Services
Implementing Cache and Models integration. It relays on cache for fetch operations, if there is a hit, the model is hydrated and passed along. On miss, the model is fetched from the DB.

In case of data updates, updates are triggered to the DB and the cache is updated to reflect the new status.

### Models
Abstracting the access to db using Mongoose to take advantage of Scheme definition and Validations.

### Postman Collection

https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/82035/SVSNJSjR?version=latest
